# A Design of Digital PFD using Hybrid Flipflops for Biomedical Applications
## Abstract
Flip-flops are single-bit information storage component that is synchronous and bistable. This article proposes a flip-flop with a very low power consumption that uses just 14 transistors. Using topological, logical, and adaptive coupling strategies, this Master Slave (MS) type architecture is created. The approaches mentioned above, which include complementary pass transistor logic and static complementary MOS logic, preserve the smallest amount of transistors. Additionally, it provides minimal complexity by lowering the number of transistors, low power, and a short delay that accelerates flip-flops. The proposed circuit is put into practice using Cadence Virtuoso and contrasted with the five previous documented flip-flop logic architectures. The proposed logic architecture demonstrated the greatest improvement in terms of power as compared to LRFF of 49.73%. Additionally, it enhanced both energy delay and efficiency (EDP). For 200 samples, a Monte Carlo simulation of the C to Q delay and power consumption has been run. In compared to existing work, the overall size of the suggested flip-flop is reduced by at least 9.49% by lowering the number of PMOS transistors. The recommended circuit used 52.52%, 62.89%, and 49.73% less power than TGFF, ACFF, and LRFF, respectively. The suggested circuit beat TGFF, ACFF, and LRFF in terms of leakage power by 4.20%, 19.27%, and 39.75%, respectively. Additionally, it operates flawlessly in a variety of corner conditions and supply voltage changes. The Digital Phase Frequency Detector, a key component of the Digital Phase Locked Loop, was designed using the Proposed Flipflop. The DPFD employing PFF used 54.32%, 64.56%, and 51.20% less power than the TGFF, ACFF, and LRFF- based DPFD, respectively. Successful consideration of all the study&#39;s criteria was achieved.
